doc: add missing info in the installation guide and olm repo content (#122)
operator-framework/olm-docs: content/en/docs/getting-started/_index.md

  Install OLM in a kubernetes cluster.
---

> 

Reviewer: We may need to remove the extra newline to make the linter happy.

  replicaCount: 1
  # The image to run. If not building a local image, use sha256 image references
  image:
    ref: quay.io/operator-framework/olm:local
    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  service:
    # port for readiness/liveness probes
    internalPort: 8080
# catalog operator run configuration
catalog:
  # Catalog operator doesn't do any leader election (yet), set to 1
  replicaCount: 1
  # The image to run. If not building a local image, use sha256 image references
  image:
    ref: quay.io/operator-framework/olm:local
    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  service:
    # port for readiness/liveness probes
    internalPort: 8080
```

To configure a release of OLM for installation in a cluster:

1. Create a `my-values.yaml` like the example above with the desired configuration or choose an existing one from this repository. The latest production values can be found in [deploy/upstream/values.yaml][deploy-upstream-values].

1. Generate deployment files from the templates and the `my-values.yaml` using `package_release.sh`

   ```bash
   # first arg must be a semver-compatible version string
   # second arg is the output directory
   # third arg is the values.yaml file

>    ./scripts/package_release.sh 1.0.0-myolm ./my-olm-deployment my-values.yaml

Reviewer 2: This script does not exist in this repo, we should probably either copy paste the script in a separate file in the doc site so that users can copy it to create their own file(this is my preference so that users don't have to jump back and forth between the site and the repos), or link to the script at least to begin with.

Author: I am not sure if I am following that. I understand that:
- I would be reading the info in https://olm.operatorframework.io/ (which is the doc ref)
- However, locally I would have the OLM repo cloned since the goal here is to install the OLM project. Then, I would have this script because it is provided there. I mean, I do not think that has a reason for someone that is following the getting started docs to have the docs locally instead of the OLM project. 

Then, if we move the script to OLM docs and if changed in the repo it will be providing the wrong info. Is that make sense?

   ```

1. Deploy to kubernetes: `kubectl apply -f ./my-olm-deployment/templates/`

The above steps are automated for official releases with `make ver=0.3.0 release`, which will output new versions of manifests in `deploy/tectonic-alm-operator/manifests/$(ver)`.

## Overriding the Global Catalog Namespace

> It is possible to override the Global Catalog Namespace by setting the `GLOBAL_CATALOG_NAMESPACE` environment variable in the catalog operator deployment.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what this means? We could probably elaborate on this a little more.

Author: It is the current info provided by OLM README via the Getting Started section see:

- https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager#getting-started
- https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/blob/master/doc/install/install.md#overriding-the-global-catalog-namespace

Then, if need to be improved I think would better done in a follow up for someone that has  more context than I.

packageserver      2/2     2            2           5m43s
```

> ## Installing OLM with Operator SDK

Reviewer: Actually, I think I misread what we're trying to achieve here. Can we move this `Installing OLM with Operator SDK` further up the documentation as a subheader under the `Installing OLM in your cluster`?

packageserver      2/2     2            2           5m43s
```

> ## Installing OLM with sdk

Reviewer 3: Capitalize SDK like we do elsewhere in the doc since it's an acronym. Or better yet use "Operator SDK".
```suggestion
## Installing OLM with Operator SDK
```

The [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] provides a command to easily install and uninstall OLM for developmental purposes. See the [SDK installation guide][sdk-installation-guide] on how to install `operator-sdk` tooling.

With `operator-sdk` installed, you can easily install OLM on your cluster by running `operator-sdk olm install`. It is just as easy to uninstall OLM by running `operator-sdk uninstall olm`.  For more information about how to integrate your project using [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI tool, see the following [OLM integration][sdk-olm-integration] section.

> ## Installing an operator bundle with sdk

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Installing an operator bundle with Operator SDK
```

You can use the [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI to run your bundle with [`operator-sdk run bundle`][cli-run-bundle].

> Now that the bundle image is present in a registry, [`operator-sdk run bundle`][cli-run-bundle]

Reviewer 3: `Now that the bundle image is present in a registry` reads like we've just done that step in a previous section.
But that's not the case right? So maybe rephrasing that to make it more like a pre-requisite to have an existing bundle image on some registry. 
```suggestion
Given a bundle image is present in a registry, [`operator-sdk run bundle`][cli-run-bundle]
```

Author: Done.

INFO[0019]   Waiting for ClusterServiceVersion "default/memcached-operator.v0.0.1" to appear
INFO[0031]   Found ClusterServiceVersion "default/memcached-operator.v0.0.1" phase: Pending
INFO[0032]   Found ClusterServiceVersion "default/memcached-operator.v0.0.1" phase: Installing
INFO[0040]   Found ClusterServiceVersion "default/memcached-operator.v0.0.1" phase: Succeeded
INFO[0040] OLM has successfully installed "memcached-operator.v0.0.1"
```

**Note** For more information about how to integrate your project using [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI tool, see the following [OLM integration][sdk-olm-integration] section.

## Running OLM locally with minikube 

This command starts minikube, builds the OLM containers locally with the minikube-provided docker, and uses the local configuration in [local-values.yaml][local-values.yaml] to build localized deployment resources for OLM.

```bash
# To install and run locally
make run-local
```

You can verify that the OLM components have been successfully deployed by running `kubectl -n local get deployments`.

## User Interface (Running the Console Locally)

> To interact with OLM and it's resources via a web browser, you can use the [web-console][web-console] in a Kubernetes cluster. 

Reviewer 3: Use the possessive pronoun `its` here
```suggestion
To interact with OLM and its resources via a web browser, you can use the [web-console][web-console] in a Kubernetes cluster. 
```

packageserver      2/2     2            2           5m43s
```

> ## Using SDK to work with OLM

Author: I do not want to change the style of the docs here now. Just add/move the content we can always make better and organize in follow-ups too. Addressing your suggestion 👍

> ## Using SDK to work with OLM

Author: Improved 👍  I hope that solves.

### Installing via SDK for development purpose

[Operator-SDK][operator-sdk] provides a feature which allows you to install easily OLM for development purposes. 

Check the [SDK intallation guide][sdk-installation-guide]. Then, see that you are able to install OLM on your cluster by running `operator-sdk olm install` and then, you also can uninstall it with `operator-sdk olm uninstall`. For more info about how to integrate your project using [Operator-SDK][operator-sdk] CLI tool see teh section [OLM integration][sdk-olm-integration].  

### Installing an operator bundle via SDK for development purpose

You can use the [Operator-SDK][operator-sdk] CLI to run your bundle locally with `operator-sdk run bundle`.

To learn more about packaging your operator for OLM, installing/uninstalling an operator etc, visit the [Core Tasks](/docs/tasks/) and the [Advanced Tasks](/docs/advanced-tasks/) section of this site.

> ### From the source

Author: See if it is better now ?

> ### From the source

Author: I changed that. So, I think that it might make more sense now.

## Run locally with minikube

This command starts minikube, builds the OLM containers locally with the minikube-provided docker, and uses the local configuration in [local-values.yaml][local-values.yaml] to build localized deployment resources for OLM.

```bash
# To install and run locally
$ make run-local
```

You can verify that the OLM components have been successfully deployed by running `kubectl -n local get deployments`

> **NOTE** It is recommended for development purposes and will use the source locally.

Author: It is a copy and paste from the OLM installation guide in the OLM repo. But I think we can improve that.

## Customizing OLM installation 

> Deployments of OLM can be stamped out with different configurations by writing a `values.yaml` file and running commands to generate resources.

Author: Just copy and paste. The goal is we move forward with https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/pull/2046

So, it adds the OLM info from the current installation guide to centralize here.

> Deployments of OLM can be stamped out with different configurations by writing a `values.yaml` file and running commands to generate resources.

Reviewer 2: Maybe changing it to "Default values used while installing OLM with `operator-sdk olm install` can be overridden by providing the custom configurations in a `values.yaml` file, and then using that file to generate the new manifests for deploying custom configured OLM." might help?

> Deployments of OLM can be stamped out with different configurations by writing a `values.yaml` file and running commands to generate resources.

Author: It has no relation with the `operator-sdk olm install`. The `operator-sdk olm install` will not get in count it. 
this info is in the install guide https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/blob/master/doc/install/install.md#customizing-olm-installation which is used in the README in th Getting started of the OLM README see : https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager#getting-started.

The idea of this PR is to move the Getting Started instructions from the OLM README and add them in the Getting Started of the olm docs. So that, we can link the OLM docs webside in the readme and replace that by the Getting Started here.

    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  service:
    # port for readiness/liveness probes
    internalPort: 8080

# catalog operator run configuration
catalog:
  # Catalog operator doesn't do any leader election (yet), set to 1
  replicaCount: 1
  # The image to run. If not building a local image, use sha256 image references
  image:
    ref: quay.io/operator-framework/olm:local
    pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
  service:
    # port for readiness/liveness probes
    internalPort: 8080
```

To configure a release of OLM for installation in a cluster:

1. Create a `my-values.yaml` like the example above with the desired configuration or choose an existing one from this repository. The latest production values can be found in e.g [deploy/upstream/values.yaml][deploy-upstream-values].
1. Generate deployment files from the templates and the `my-values.yaml` using `package_release.sh`

   ```bash
   # first arg must be a semver-compatible version string
   # second arg is the output directory
   # third arg is the values.yaml file
   ./scripts/package_release.sh 1.0.0-myolm ./my-olm-deployment my-values.yaml
   ```

1. Deploy to kubernetes: `kubectl apply -f ./my-olm-deployment/templates/`

> The above steps are automated for official releases with `make ver=0.3.0 release`, which will output new versions of manifests in `deploy/tectonic-alm-operator/manifests/$(ver)`.

Author: Just copy and paste. The goal is we move forward with https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-lifecycle-manager/pull/2046

So, it adds the OLM info from the current installation guide to centralize here.  I do not think that we should change that now and it is the current info provided. However, some OLM team member might able to improve that after.

packageserver      2/2     2            2           5m43s
```

> ## Installing OLM and operator bundle via SDK for development purpose

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installing OLM and operator bundles via SDK for development purposes
```

> ## Installing OLM and operator bundle via SDK for development purpose

Reviewer: Another minor nit: I think an extra newline got added here somewhere when I look at the rendered tab for this. Can we remove that? It looks like line 63?

### Installing OLM

> The [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] provides a command to easily install and uninstall OLM for development purposes. See the [SDK installation guide][sdk-installation-guide] on how to install `operator-sdk`.  

Reviewer: Minor nit, but I think it reads slightly better? WDYT?

```suggestion
The [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] provides a command to easily install and uninstall OLM for developmental purposes. See the [SDK installation guide][sdk-installation-guide] on how to install `operator-sdk` tooling.  
```

> With `operator-sdk` installed, you can easily install OLM on your cluster by running `operator-sdk olm install`. It is just as easy to uninstall OLM by running `operator-sdk uninstall olm`.  For more, information about how to integrate your project using [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI tool see the [OLM integration][sdk-olm-integration] section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `operator-sdk` installed, you can easily install OLM on your cluster by running `operator-sdk olm install`. It is just as easy to uninstall OLM by running `operator-sdk uninstall olm`.  For more information about how to integrate your project using [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI tool, see the following [OLM integration][sdk-olm-integration] section. 
```

### Installing an operator bundle

> You can use the [`operator-sdk`][operator-sdk] CLI to run your bundle with [`operator-sdk run bundle`](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/cli/operator-sdk_run_bundle/).

Author: done

## Running OLM locally with minikube for development purpose

> This command starts minikube, builds the OLM containers locally with the minikube-provided docker, and uses the local configuration in [local-values.yaml][local-values.yaml] to build localized deployment resources for OLM.

Reviewer: :+1:

```bash
# To install and run locally

> $ make run-local

Reviewer: We'll want to remove the `$` to make it easy to copy-and-paste or else the linter will complain as there's no follow command output.

> $ make run-local

Author: I think that goes to the contribution guides as well?

> $ make run-local

Author: It is part of getting started - installation docs which now is the OLM README.
Should not the olm docs cover all docs regarding the OLM project? Will not we at some point indeed move the OLM docs to the OLM repo?

```

> You can verify that the OLM components have been successfully deployed by running `kubectl -n local get deployments`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can verify that the OLM components have been successfully deployed by running `kubectl -n local get deployments`.
```

> ## User Interface (Running the console Locally)

Reviewer: Super minor nit, but I'd like to see all the non-articles (e.g. `the`) capitalized, or non-capitalized, if possible.

```suggestion
## User Interface (Running the Console Locally)
```

> Use the admin console (compatible with upstream Kubernetes) to interact with and visualize the resources managed by OLM. Create subscriptions, approve install plans, identify Operator-managed resources, and more.

Author: done.

Ensure `kubectl` is pointing at a cluster and run:

```shell

> $ make run-console-local

Reviewer: (copy-and-pasting an earlier review comment that also applies here)

We'll want to remove the $ to make it easy to copy-and-paste or else the linter will complain as there's no follow command output.

```

Then visit `http://localhost:9000` to view the console.

> ## Customizing OLM installation 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Customizing OLM installations
```

Deployments of OLM can be stamped out with different configurations by writing a `values.yaml` file and running commands to generate resources.

> Here's an example `values.yaml`

Reviewer: WDYT?

```suggestion
Here's an example `values.yaml`:
```

```yaml

> # sets the apiversion to use for rbac-resources. Change to `authorization.openshift.io` for openshift

Reviewer: Just for consistency-sake.

```suggestion
# sets the apiversion to use for rbac-resources. Change to `authorization.openshift.io` for openshift.
```

Reviewer: Well, nevermind :laughing: - I don't have a strong opinion, but it doesn't look like there's any consistency for the comments in this yaml code block, so disregard if you want.
